Blueprint: describe directory and file customizations (#103)
osbuild/guides: osbuild-composer/src/blueprint-reference/blueprint-reference.md

enabled = ["sshd", "cockpit.socket", "httpd"]
disabled = ["postfix", "telnetd"]
```

### Custom files and directories

You can use Blueprint customizations to create custom files and directories in the image. These customizations are currently restricted only to the `/etc` directory.

When using the custom files and directories customization, the following rules apply:

- The path must be an absolute path and must be under `/etc`.
- There might be no duplicate paths of the same directory.

> - There might be no duplicated paths of the same file.

Reviewer: Why did this change to "might" instead of "must"?  "can" also works (There can be no duplicate...), but "might" doesn't sound right.

Also, one says duplicate and the other duplicated.  I think either works, but should be the same.

Author: I changed it to `must`, since that was used in the first list item.

```toml
[[customizations.directories]]
path = "/etc/foobar"
mode = "0755"
user = "root"
group = "root"
ensure_parents = false
```

- `path` is the path to the directory to create. It must be an absolute path under `/etc`. This is the only required field.
- `mode` is the octal mode to set on the directory. If not specified, the default is `0755`. The leading zero is optional.
- `user` is the user to set as the owner of the directory. If not specified, the default is `root`. Can be specified as user name (string) or as user id (integer).
- `group` is the group to set as the owner of the directory. If not specified, the default is `root`. Can be specified as group name (string) or as group id (integer).
- `ensure_parents` is a boolean that specifies whether to create parent directories as needed. If not specified, the default is `false`.

#### Custom files

You can create custom files by specifying items in the `customizations.files` list. You can use the customization to create new files or to replace existing ones, if not restricted by the policy specified below. If the target path is an existing symlink to another file, the symlink will be replaced by the custom file.

> Please note that the parent directory of a specified file must exist. If it does not exist, the image build will fail. One can assure that the parent directory exists by specifying it in the `customizations.directories` list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the parent directory of a specified file must exist. If it does not exist, the image build will fail. One can ensure that the parent directory exists by specifying it in the `customizations.directories` list.
```

enabled = ["sshd", "cockpit.socket", "httpd"]
disabled = ["postfix", "telnetd"]
```

### Custom files and directories

> Blueprint customizations can be used to create custom files and directories in the image. This ability is currently restricted to only `/etc`.

Author: Thanks for the great suggestion.

> You can use Blueprint customizations to create custom files and directories in the image. These customizations are currently restricted only to the `/etc` directory.

Reviewer 2: It seems like we don't capitalize blueprints anywhere else, so I would in favor of using *blueprint* here.

Author: sure...

When using the custom files and directories customization, the following rules apply:

- The path must be an absolute path and must be under `/etc`.

> - There may be no duplicate paths of the same type (file or directory) nor may there be a file and directory with the same path.

Reviewer: This is a little confusing.  I think mentioning the type ("... of the same type ... nor file and directory") makes it unclear because essentially what we want to say is "you can't have the same path more than once" and that we could file and directory paths together.

Author: I'll try to reword it a bit... 🤔

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I'll go with it...

> - No custom file can be a parent of another custom file or directory.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this line isn't just noise and if it should be removed. Files just generally cannot be parents of anything.

Author: I do not have any preference here. Happy to remove it. I basically described all explicit checks that we do in the code.

#### Custom directories

> Custom directories can be created by specifying items in the `customizations.directories` list. The customization can be used to create new directories or to modify existing ones, if not restricted by the policy.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. As for the policy, I meant what is on line 235. In addition, we were considering restricting paths which can not be modified with this customization, but in the end we do not allow modifying any existing directories. So I'll just reflect that and won't mention any policy.

The following example creates a directory named `/etc/foobar` with all the default settings:

```toml
[[customizations.directories]]
path = "/etc/foobar"
mode = "0755"
user = "root"
group = "root"
ensure_parents = false
```

- `path` is the path to the directory to create. It must be an absolute path and must be under `/etc`. This is the only required field.
- `mode` is the octal mode to set on the directory. If not specified, the default is `0755`. The leading zero is optional.
- `user` is the user to set as the owner of the directory. If not specified, the default is `root`. Can be specified as user name (string) or as user id (integer).
- `group` is the group to set as the owner of the directory. If not specified, the default is `root`. Can be specified as group name (string) or as group id (integer).
- `ensure_parents` is a boolean that specifies whether to create parent directories as needed. If not specified, the default is `false`.

#### Custom files

> Custom files can be created by specifying items in the `customizations.files` list. The customization can be used to create new files or to replace existing ones, if not restricted by the policy. Note that if the target path is an existing symlink to another file, it will be replaced by the custom file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom files can be created by specifying items in the `customizations.files` list. The customization can be used to create new files or to replace existing ones, if not restricted by the policy. Note that if the target path is an existing symlink to another file, the symlink will be replaced by the custom file.
```
I think **it** here is ambiguous: it may refer to the "existing symlink" or the "another file".

> Custom files can be created by specifying items in the `customizations.files` list. The customization can be used to create new files or to replace existing ones, if not restricted by the policy. Note that if the target path is an existing symlink to another file, the symlink will be replaced by the custom file.

Reviewer 3: As a suggestion, you could use the direct voice: "You can create custom files by specifying items in the `customizations.files` list."

Please note that the parent directory of a specified file must exist. If it does not exist, the image build will fail. One can assure that the parent directory exists by specifying it in the `customizations.directories` list.

In addition, the following files are not allowed to be created or replaced by policy:

- `/etc/fstab`
- `/etc/shadow`
- `/etc/passwd`
- `/etc/group`

> Using the `files` customization comes with a high chance of breaking the image. It is recommended to use it only if you know what you are doing. Although the `files` customization can be used to configure parts of the OS, that can be done by other blueprint customizations, this use is discouraged. If possible, users should always default to using the specialized blueprint customizations. Note that if you combine the files customizations with other customizations, the other customizations may not work as expected or may be overridden by the files customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `files` customization comes with a high chance of creating an image that doesn't boot. **Use this feature only if you know what you are doing**. Although the `files` customization can be used to configure parts of the OS which can also be configured by other blueprint customizations, this use is discouraged. If possible, users should always default to using the specialized blueprint customizations. Note that if you combine the files customizations with other customizations, the other customizations may not work as expected or may be overridden by the files customizations.
```

Some minor rephrasing, if you don't mind :)
